So basically,
we're gonna do the visit call expression.
So this is essentially when you are in the
parse tree node and you're going through
that gigantic switch statement of all
the different flavors of parse tree node.
Now is the point in the course where
we are going to finally take a look at
the call expression.
So this is where you're
actually calling the function.
So there's this term callee.
Callee basically returns to
the thing that you're calling.
As we noted in three or four sections ago,
it is possible that this is an identifier,
so like foo or something like the name
of the function increment, but
it's also possible it's not.
You can always call things that are just
arbitrary expressions by putting
parentheses around them.
So since we don't know which one we have
here, we are going to have to assume
that it's a node and
then treat it as such as we progress.
So basically the next thing we're gonna
do is just go sort of walk through all
the arguments of this function, which we
know based on having this node in scope,
this like the parse tree node.
Parse tree nodes have the arguments
listed for function types.
This is what we are calling and then
basically we're just gonna build up this,
like accumulation of arc types
by visiting each node in turn.
So this is not just giving us
the if we didn't visit the node and
we just did it like this, then we would
have a collection of parse tree nodes.
But that's not what we want.
These are the arc types.
So we're going to go call visit node to
run our usual logic, go through our giant
switch statement, possibly end up
back here a couple times, who knows?
And we're not gonna worry about [LAUGH]
blowing the stack for this course.
And ultimately, after doing all that,
we end up with archetypes being populated
with the contents of all those visit node
calls and all those different types, okay?
So the next thing is our first,
here's what we need to actually do.
And this is basically where,
rather than making a return type of 0 this
is a case where we need to actually for
the first time in any of our exercises,
add a new row to our database table.
So this is something where there is a
function in here has the word fresh in it,
so I'm not spoil the answer, but
you can poke around to find it.
It's basically a way of saying,
hey, database,
I need a new row because I need
to do some unification stuff.
So in most of our examples we have seen so
far, we have this sort of extra pass,
or, if you're doing it in
canonicalization, where you go through and
sort of hand out all of these IDs for
database rows.
But it's also very possible that right in
the middle of unification, you're like,
I need to do one of those.
Wait, I didn't plan ahead for this,
I didn't anticipate that we
would end up in this scenario.
I have found that I need
a new one of these.
Now, granted, this one was kind
of maybe anticipatable, okay,
you're going to need a return type for
your function, fine.
But this is something that actually
legitimately happens all the time, and
so it's useful to know that
you have access to this and
how to do it in the middle
of a unification pass.
So do that there, just change this from
zero to basically give me a new fresh type
variable that is a row where the the type
is just gonna be initialized to null and
then we'll actually do
stuff with it later.
Then we start to actually look at like,
what type of colleague
are we dealing with?
So this is where we've essentially
broken it down into two possibilities.
One is we are in the parentheses scenario
as written out here, whereas, basically,
okay, I have parentheses around
something that is a function type and
then I'm calling that.
Or I have an identifier where
there's no parentheses, or
at least probably not if the format runs.
And then I'm calling that sort of by name.
Yeah, so basically,
in each of these two scenarios,
we have some different thing to do.
So here is basically take callee.body and
go look up its type.
So essentially this is the callee and so
we want to go look up the body of that
function expression, so not the arguments,
but this part, the body,
go look up its type.
And then basically make this
variable here called body type,
be whatever that thing's body type is,
instead of the current that we're just
initializing it to, which is null.
And then for the identifier case, we're
not gonna look so much at the body, but
rather we're gonna go look
up the identifier and
basically try to find in scope.
Okay, is that thing there,
that identifier for that thing's name, so
like foo in this case.
And then basically say like,
okay, if we have one of those,
then let's go get it out of scope,
find this type ID and
then use it right here instead
of the hard coded zero.
>> Richard Feldman: Okay,
let's go through these solutions.
So, first, we're gonna start off with
this one, create a fresh tight variable.
Fortunately, we have they,
let me jump down here real quick.
Fortunately we have a nice convenient
thing here called fresh type ID.
So, let's go ahead and
use that one right there.
What was that?
Yeah, fresh type variable, great.
FreshTypeID.
So if you go look at the definition
of FreshTypeId, very simple,
it's just like we have this thing called
NextTypeId, which is auto-incrementing
integer, basically from your
classic relational database.
Except we're doing it with
JavaScript arrays, increment it, and
then basically just initialize it to null.
That slot in the database initialize
the null and then return it.
So great, we've now gotten our
new returnTypeId in the middle of
the function, which is very nice.
Now we need to go look up the type,
not the type ID of callee.body.
So way to do that is basically
just like visit node.
So we can, oops, go get the callee type.
I'm sorry, that's.
Yeah, am I in the right one here?
I am.
Okay, yeah, so
get the callee type from the body.
So this is visit node,
calle.body.
You know what?
I'm looking at the my bad that's I
was wondering why that wasn't there.
I'm looking at the wrong one.
Let me look at the part five one
solution that makes more sense.
It's more complicated now
that we're in function land.
>> Richard Feldman: Cool.
Right, so there's our FreshTypeId.
And here we are doing the visit
node on the node.collee.body.
That was that one and
that's gonna be instead of body type.null.
And so now basically what we're
unifying is the returnTypeId,
which as we just saw a second ago,
we have now initialized to null.
So as we know from unify, this is because
it's coming in as null, this is just
immediately going to be unified to
Assem link to whatever this thing is.
That's the like, the first code
path we talked about in unify.
So essentially,
what we're saying here is like, okay,
whatever your body type is, like the
actual implementation of this body here,
we are going to unify directly with that,
like our whole type.
Okay, so
then the next case is where we don't
have this unusual parentheses situation.
We instead have an identifier.
And for the identifier case, it's even
simpler where basically we're like, okay,
we have an identifier,
we've got the scope here.
All we really need to do is just grab
the function's type Id from scope and
that's just the thing that we do
at the very beginning of this,
which is just hey, go get the scope.
And then resolve some links and compress
to get it all the way back down to
something that's either guaranteed to be
null or guaranteed to be a concrete type.
So this same trick that we use
at the very beginning of unify,
all the way back up at here for a and
b, we can use it once again to just make
sure that we have something that is all
the way resolved to the end of the line.
And from there, we're basically just
looking at the same stuff we were before,
where we're like checking to see if
there's return type information in
this function return types map.
A little bit of a sidebar on this,
so back at the slides,
we talked about how we're kind
of storing this in the table.
That is a way that you can do this.
But actually it's more common to
store this extra function information
out of band.
So that, basically, rather than storing
this right here inside the node,
another way that you can do that,
somebody asked the question
isn't that gonna make the type?
Kind of big over here and the answer
is like, well, yes, it is [LAUGH].
So another trick you can do is you can
just sort of store it in like a side table
where basically you just have a separate
mapping from like the IDs that you know
are functions to what are their extra
pieces of metadata around that?
And this is basically just like
demonstrating a way of doing that.
Either technique works, they both
have their pros and cons, but FYI,
that's what the function return
types like side map is about.
It just kind of hangs up here with
scope and the next type ID and
errors and
those other sort of global things.